there are all sorts of keyboards on the
market today from elaborate gaming
platforms to sleek utilitarian designs
but what about a keyboard for the
discerning gentleman the kind of
keyboard that says my other car is a
semi-rigid dirigible
well don't pop a monocle but a while
back a tech enthusiast by the name of
jacket Silk'n created an open-source
project detailing how you can convert
one of the several antique typewriters
you no doubt have cluttering up your
boudoir into a perfectly functional USB
keyboard and we're going to show you
just how to do it old bean
[Music]
Tunnel Bear is the simple VPN app that
makes it easy to browse privately and
enjoy a more open Internet to try tunnel
bear for free check out the link in the
video description to start with let's do
a brief primer on how a typewriter
operates every key press you'll notice
there extremely deep results in a
mechanical action involving Springs and
levers that causes the arm corresponding
to the struck letter to make contact
with an ink ribbon and stamp the letter
on to the page as you type in theory the
contact point for each letter is
identical and it's the page itself that
moves back and forth more on this later
so this should be pretty simple then
thanks to the enduring QWERTY standard
there's a convenient backwards
compatibility of sorts so we could just
take the existing letter stamps put
contacts where they strike and add some
kind of digital interface and boom it's
off to the races right well no back to
the point before about all the arms
hitting the same spot every key on the
keyboard would hit the same spot typing
the same letter over and over so you
only look like a badass until someone
started reading your screenplay over
your shoulder in the local Starbucks so
the way to get around this while
preserving the original aesthetic and as
much of the original feel as possible is
with this the sensor bar it consists of
a series of flexible metal contacts laid
out like piano keys across a circuit
board that intercept the input directly
under the keys themselves
so each actuation drops a corresponding
bar in this row which strikes a contact
and alerts the microcontroller to a key
press cool right let's show you how to
do it before we can install the sensor
bar we need to displace the space bar
for access and then remove the cross bar
now ideally the way you're supposed to
do this is by unscrewing the two stops
on the space bar and loosen
the screw so the spacebar can swing out
of your way unfortunately thanks to mr.
rust our screws are all stuck fast you
can try to solve this by applying a
liberal dose of hydrogen peroxide and a
few firm taps to let the liquid seep
into the thread which worked for one of
the screws we needed but even after more
taps than fred astaire second best pair
of shoes the screws on the spacebar
stops and the ones holding the crossbar
in place remained firmly jammed
so naturally we gave up I'm just kidding
fortunately we have the skills and tools
appropriate for this sort of delicate
operation success with unimpeded access
our next step is to remove the layer of
paint on the bottom of the keys to
expose the electrically conductive metal
underneath a lot of people would
recommend using a coarse grit sandpaper
to strip that away but what am i a
monkey banging rocks together that would
take way too long I'm going to use a
machine now we're supposed to move the
crossbar at this point so we can
repurpose it into a holder for the
sensor bar but with the amount of
corrosion and rust on this thing it's
not going anywhere
time for more improvisation this chunk
of metal we procured has three qualities
that are crucial to us one it's a flat
surface to it's rigid enough to be used
as a support and three and perhaps most
importantly it was within arm's reach in
our recycling pile so we sliced a thin
strip out of it to hold our sensor board
now though we're gonna need some way to
prop it up beneath the undercarriage ha
glory be these two empty threaded holes
on either side of the typewriter frame
are exactly where we need them to be and
currently woefully underutilized so we
liberated these two eye bolts from some
large clanking machine near our
electrical box I'm about 80% certain
they were structure II superfluous and
they fit perfectly in these slots so all
we need to do then is twist them through
to the right depth a wallah super firm
with barely any give like a
fashionable whalebone corset now it's
crucial at this point to visually check
the alignment of the dots on the back of
the center board with each metal bar
then once we were sure it was perfectly
positioned we glued the center board on
to our makeshift supports better use a
little more just to be sure maybe a
touch more I don't want this going
anywhere and perfect we'll put the
control panel here on the side where
it's close enough to the censor bar for
an easy connection and where we can
easily reach it and we're almost ready
to flip it back over but there are just
a few housekeeping items to take care of
these eye bolts extend way past where we
need them and the scuttlebutt is they
made some disparaging remarks about the
Queen so I'm afraid it's off with their
heads it'd be a shame if we cut the cord
to our control panel though so we're
going to make sure that that's tucked
nicely out of the way and move our space
bar back in position we also need to
attach the control panel directly to the
electrically conductive metal of the
frame with a grounding wire the best and
by best I mean the only one not so
thoroughly rusted that we can actually
remove it screw for this job looks to be
this one in the back now a modern
keyboard has keys that you won't find on
any typewriter ctrl alt and command
being among them you can just press the
control box but the cooler way is to use
magnetic switches on the four auxiliary
inputs that it allows so we set ours up
on the space bar shift and carriage
return which means that when we press
ENTER we get the satisfaction of
slamming this lever every single time
and as any early 20th century typist
will tell you that never gets old
the wires are a little all over the
place at this point but after a quick
round of cable management we are pretty
much done everything looks as tight and
rigid as late-victorian gender norms and
the end result is a piece of hardware
that is more than just another
disposable peripheral but rather an
interesting alchemy of antique and
modern machinery not to mention a
beautiful centerpiece for a desk an
elegant keyboard the blue screen of
death if you type too fast
but it's great if you're interested in a
tactile typing experience that even the
best mechanical keyboards can't match if
you enjoy technology with a unique
aesthetic or if you just want to show up
all the wannabe hipsters at your next
poetry slam we're teaming up with rocket
to give away three of their skelter
keyboards their membrane keyboards that
you can use seamlessly with both your
phone and your PC at the same time so
you type directly to your phone / tablet
and then switch back to your PC with the
touch of a button you can utilize
rockets swarm app to enhance your gaming
experience with a secondary screen /
control system using your phone as well
you can play games in full screen while
watching a stream or a video on your
phone you can answer incoming text
messages well that's a phone but don't
worry too much about that without having
to minimize your game or look away for
too long and you can even accept phone
calls see you now see how I turn that
around there with your headset and
switch audio between your phone and your
PC so enter at the link below for a
chance to win so thanks for watching
guys if this video sucked you know what
to do but if it was awesome get
subscribed hit that like button or check
out the link to where to buy the stuff
we featured usually at Amazon but
somewhere else this time cuz it's not
available on Amazon in video description
also linked in the description is our
merch store which has cool shirts like
this one and our community forum which
you should totally join now that you're
done doing all that stuff you're
probably wondering what to watch next so
check out that little button in the top
right corner - so check out click that
little button whatever check out our
latest video over on channel super fun
[Music]